---
layout: post
title: "Linux..."
date: 2025-06-22 12:50:00
author: typhnol
---

ok well it's pretty obvious what this is gonna be about... 
<br>
so, yeah, i made a full switch to linux (mint cinnamon)
<br>
managed to get most of my programs and files transferred over, but there were some things i did have to part with :(
<br>
well before i get into that... let me tell you about my 'linux journey' lmao
<br>
## what the distro
so it was september 2024, and i wanted to get a PC because i literally had no computer at home i could keep for personal use, but then i realized that a windows key costs an honestly absurd amount of money, and i didn't feel like borrowing someone else's microsoft account, so i decided maybe i could just use linux. it'd be a good learning experience, and hopefully i'm able to do most things i want to do. so, of course, being a complete beginner, i installed ubuntu. it was fine, but i generally just didn't like the desktop environment. i'm not too used to using macOS and GNOME just looked 'off' to me in the same way, since i've used microsoft windows my whole life... but regardless, ubuntu wasn't it for me, so i tried something else. well, debian went basically the exact same way. didn't like the look, tried customizing for a bit, then i probably got tired of that and decided to just scrap everything. i'm uh... not very patient. that's literally all i did during that time though. tried out a grand total of 2 distros and gave up. i ended up just using a MAS activation script for windows 10. since then, i've been using it (until now of course), and i guess it's nice to use something you're familiar with. then came the news... windows 10 is NO LONGER BEING SUPPORTED AFTER OCTOBER!!! THIS YEAR!!! i was definitely not happy when i found this out. i don't know if this was a thing or for how long this was a thing that people just knew or what, but i was pretty shocked when i heard this. so... i decided to try out linux again. well! i definitely picked a not so beginner friendly option... arch linux. i began the process of installing arch... manually. without archinstall. very bad idea because i was suffering for the entire 6 hours it took me to install arch with KDE plasma. oh well! at least it works, right- uh oh the log out shutdown restart buttons don't work... surely that's fine... i can just use the terminal! uhm, what the hell happened to my wifi connections??? 
<br>
<br>
...and i proceeded to never use arch as a daily driver and only booted into it to update my packages. 
<br>
so, in the end, i decided i just don't want to have to deal with arch anymore. i did try out hyprland, but i don't think i could get used to the window tiling. it was also a bit janky being installed alongside KDE plasma for some reason? for one, i'm not very tech savvy in the first place, so i'm not sure why i wanted to use arch. to prove a point? just for fun? who knows... and two, i actually realized that i found the frequent updating of rolling release distros really really annoying. i suppose that was only amplified by the fact that i wasn't using arch as a daily driver, so i'd have to shut down windows and boot into arch just to update my stuff. i'd go straight back to windows after. pretty stupid, right? well, regardless, i thought that mint would probably be a better option for me then, since cinnamon looks a lot like windows, and generally i could just install stuff without needing to worry about the terminal too much. for installing stuff .deb packages usually work fine for mint anyway, and most ubuntu things should also work on mint.
## hello mint
ok, we're at the present now, and uh... mint has been pretty decent so far! any programs that were a little more difficult to install and actually work properly i usually fixed with using the terminal or transferring specific data to a directory. i actually had to do that a lot more than i thought i would... like rain world didn't transfer over my saves, so i had to steal those and put it in steam. same thing for undertale and deltarune, but that was more to be expected. i also just transferred my entire browser profile to linux so it would keep all my bookmarks, cookies, settings, tabs etc. anyways, point is, things were alright, and i could see this becoming my actual daily driver. went a couple days entirely without windows 10. now for the things i had to sacrifice... actually isn't a lot so far. of course, i can't play wuthering waves anymore, which i'm not too annoyed about because that just means one less game taking up all my time with dailies and whatnot. i also tried REALLY hard to get gamemaker to work on mint, but it just wouldn't work because i couldn't get the runtimes to download. i'm aware that it's only beta right now for linux, and for ubuntu specifically, but ubuntu stuff usually works on mint as well, and i had followed every direction on the website guide for ubuntu installations, yet every time i opened gamemaker i was met with a runtime error. i tried steam too, but i was met with more runtime errors. i even tried to steal the runtime files from my windows installation to mint, and that actually worked and let me create and save projects, but the runtime was outdated and didn't match the IDE version, so i got a bunch of compiling errors that i had no idea how to fix at the time. at this point though, i think i've given up on that. i'll just use gamemaker on windows if i really want to, but i'm likely just going to use godot. 
## ewww... windows 11...
well, it had to happen eventually. yes, i am going to update windows 10 to windows 11... i can't get rid of windows entirely, as i know that there will be some things that just aren't possible without windows. so, i'll still keep it there, but i'll have to "upgrade" it to windows 11 since microsoft will not be supporting the average unpaying users after october. i consider this more like a downgrade, with everything that i hear from other people about windows 11 being a shitty bloated piece of work that feels more like an advertisement than an actual operating system. i'm aware that there's resources for cleaner installations, like talon, but i think i'll leave it for another day. after all, i'm not going to be using windows daily anymore.
<br>
<br>
ok! byebye
